All right guys so now we're going to take a look at forms and inputs.
Now it's important to to understand that with forms on a Web site displaying them is with H Tim Allen
and we can style them with CSX.
But when you submit a form and make it do something like let's say a registration form.
That stuff happens on the back end and that happens with some type of programming language like peach
PEA or Python or JavaScript or something like that.
So just just understand that each team on CSR to display the form but server side programming languages
which you'll learn in another course.
Those that's what is used to actually process the form.
OK.
Even a simple contact form.
Although there are some services that you can use that will basically you can kind of insert a snippet
into your age.
Tim Allen you can use their service to process your form and we may talk about that much later on.
But for now let's go ahead and take a look at creating a form in the different inputs.
So going to create a file called 0 7 underscore forms underscore input dot h t email and go ahead and
put our boilerplate in here we'll change the title to forms and input
and let's go down to the body area and create a form.
Okay so we're gonna use a form tag and notice when I use Emmett to create a form tag it gives us an
action.
This is where the the form is gonna be submitted to.
So you would submit it to a file sometimes it's gonna be a p p file if that's what you're working with
on your server it might be something like a file called process stop P HP where it would take all the
form inputs the values maybe integrate it with a database you can insert the data into a database something
like that.
So here is where we're gonna put our inputs and I'm going to separate our labels and inputs with Divs.
OK so divs are just basically just that divisions if you want to separate your markup and you know in
certain ways.
So I'm gonna put a label in here.
So if I say label tab it'll give me a four attribute and this four attribute you want this to match
the idea of the input and I'll show you why in a second.
So let's say this is gonna be for the user's name we'll put the tex name in here right under it we're
gonna put an input and in this code and emit if I hit enter a tab it's gonna give me a type of text
by default which is what we want right now.
So if I go ahead and save this and let's actually run this in life server you'll see we have a label
and we have our input.
Now if I give this an I.D. of name which is the same value I did for the four attribute I save that
and I click on the label it will actually highlight the form.
OK.
So if you want that functionality then you want to put the four in the I.D. If this doesn't match you'll
see if I click on the label it doesn't actually highlight the form.
It's not something you need to do but if you want that functionality then you want to add both of these
and then a lot of times with inputs you'll have a name attribute which in this case the value just happens
to be name.
But this is what is used on the server side.
So if on the server and like let's say HP you want to grab the value you would use whatever this is.
In this case name.
All right.
So let's move on to create another input here.
So we'll put another div we'll do a label this time let's make this an email.
So we'll put an input in here.
Now with Emmett we can do a colon here and then whatever that type of input and so I want this to be
an email type and if we do that it'll also give us the name I.D. by default.
So we're going to fill this in with email and email.
All right.
And I'll save that and notice it looks just like the text field but it has to actually be an email for
it to for to submit.
OK.
So you can actually easily add validation by just using this type email OK.
It's just client side validation if you're working with a server with like let's say BHP you'd want
to add validation there as well.
So that's an email failed.
And if you want to put your label on a separate line without CSX you could put a line break here.
Let's go and do that.
Just think it just looks a little better like that and we're going to I'm going to show you how to style
form really nice later on it's actually going to be one of our challenges.
So let's go ahead and create another field here.
Let's do a div and label and this is going to be for message and message is gonna be a text area which
is different from a text input like this because it's bigger it's for it's for more content usually
like a message or don't know a bio or something like that and a text area has its own tag which also
has an ending tag and I'm going to get rid of these for a second here and just carve the name and I.D..
So for name let's say a message I.D. will say message and then we don't have to put anything within
the text area tags with if I save that let's put a line break after the label and save it and you'll
see that it's a little bigger.
Now if we want to make this even bigger without without using CSX we can use the calls in roll rows
attribute.
So for calls let's do 50 and save.
So what this is is it's 50 columns going this way.
All right.
If we want to make it bigger vertically then we can use rows.
So we'll say rolls equals five AND SAVE.
And now it's five rows going down and you can make it as big or as small as you want.
So that's a text area.
So these are the main ones like this could this could be a contact form right here.
But there are other ones let's look at a select list.
So again we'll put a div in here.
OK.
And here let's put a select tag with the name and I.D. let's call this gender.
Actually we'll call it sex.
We'll be politically correct here.
So let's say sex.
And actually we want to go inside these select we don't want to do this.
I meant to put a label here.
So it's to label and then inside the select was where we want to put our options if I just save it like
this let's put the text in here we have just an empty select list.
So for each option we want to put an actual option tag with a value.
So in this case we'll say male and then we'll put the text in here and let's just copy this down let's
say female and then we'll just put other as an option as well.
OK.
So now we have a select list with kind of this drop down menu or we can select an option.
So that is select.
Let's take a look at number.
So have a label and let's let's make this one in age.
We might use this for age and put a line very clear and let's say input and then colon number because
we want it to be the type of number.
And if you don't want to remember these image shortcuts.
Right now if it's too much you don't have to.
It just it will make your life easier in the future.
So for name let's say age and for I.D. age OK if we save that it's gonna look like a text field but
when we click inside of it or when we hover over it actually we get these arrows and we can go ahead
and we can kind of just change just increment and decrease the number.
We can also type in a number and we can't type in any any letters except for e because that can actually
be part of a number.
So that's a number fields.
It's good for ages stuff like that.
Let's take a look at the date type.
So say div we'll do a label and let's make this one.
Birth date
and we'll put a line break at the end here K and we want to do input type of date and we'll say birth
date for the name and birth date for the I.D. save that and it's gonna give us this.
Now there's two ways we can use this.
We can click inside of it.
We can put in like you know like that or we can click this little arrow which will give us this date
picker and we can actually pick a date.
We can go ahead and scroll through the Munch months and years and makes makes it a lot easier to format
dates and it makes the user format in a certain way.
So next let's look at radio buttons.
Create another div here and to label for this let's call it membership.
Maybe this is some kind of sign up form for a membership and there's different levels.
So we're going to do an input for each one with the type of radio we'll call then the name is going
to be the same for each one which will be membership.
But the value is going to be different for each one.
So value let's say we have there's a membership called simple.
All right.
So we'll do what happened here.
Value is going to be simple.
And then the idea will say membership.
So if we want to have more than one radio button we'll just copy this down.
Let's do three times.
Let's say the second membership value is going to be standard.
And then this third one is gonna be let's say Super.
Maybe it's like a hosting package or something like that.
So if we save you'll see that we just have the buttons there's no label and two if we want a label we
just put the text right next to it.
So we'll say simple OK.
We don't we don't even have to do like a label tag or anything standard and super and save.
And there we go so now we can choose one of these.
Now let's say that when you load the page you want one preselected if you want to do that what you can
do is you can take the one you want selected like let's say standard and we can add an attribute here
of checked.
So if I say checked and then it loads the page you'll see that it's automatically going to be checked.
And I forgot to mention with select we can do the same thing let's say we want a female selected on
a select list.
You don't use check to use selected.
So if I save that now notice that female is selected by default.
Also if we want to pre fill a value here like let's say a name we want to a value we can actually add
a value attribute and let's say John Doe and save.
Now sometimes you may want something in here that's not an actual value but kind of like a message like
enter an email or something like that before each team of five we would have to actually use a value
but you would want that to go away when you click in the box so we would have to use javascript to add
that functionality.
But with each team all five came place holder.
OK.
So if we want to add place holder and set that to let's say enter an email and we save.
Now it seems like it's filled like the value.
But notice the text is lighter and if I click inside of it it doesn't like it doesn't go it doesn't
go away but it gives me the cursor at the beginning it's not something that I actually have to delete
which we don't want.
OK so that's a that's a placeholder attribute.
So the last type we want to see was a checkbox which is very similar to a radio button except you can
you can choose multiple options.
Notice with the radio I can only choose one.
OK.
So there's different situations where you might want to use a checkbox in certain situations where you
might want to use a radio.
So I'm going to copy the whole div with the with the membership and let's change this to let's just
say I like this would be like a hobbies I guess or I mean it doesn't matter it's just an example.
Well we want to change all the types here to checkbox.
Now I'm going to show you another little trick if you highlight something like let's say radio and you
want to choose the next thing that matches the next text of radio you can hold control D and it will
choose the next one if you want to choose the next.
Do it again and notice all three are now selected and I can change them all at the same time I'm going
to change them all to checked I'm sorry not checked checkbox like that and then if you hit escape it'll
bring you back to your single cursor or you can just click somewhere else and then for the name I'm
going to double click and highlight and I want to select all the memberships here.
So I'm going to do control D again just to select all of these and I'm going to change it to the likes
like that.
OK.
And then we can escape and there we go.
So we have a checkbox likes for the values I'm going to change this one to say let's say bike and say
this is like a vehicle.
So bike might not be the best example but it's fine.
I want to change that to bike as do car
we want to change the value here too.
Car pride to the values lower.
The value is the actual data that gets sent to the server.
Say boat and I'll change that to boat.
OK so let's save that.
Now we have a checkboxes as I like cards selected by default because we have checked.
I'm going to get rid of that and we can go ahead and we can check as many as we want that.
OK so that is a checkbox.
Now we're going to add a submit button because obviously a form is no good unless you can actually submit
it now with a submit.
You can do a couple of things you can either.
Oh and that's something I want to show you too.
If we have all of these tabbed over we want to bring them back.
We can hold shift and then hit tab and it'll bring it backwards.
So for a submit button we could use an input like this.
We could say input and give it a type of submit and then give it a value which would be the text that's
actually displayed in the button.
So if I save that now we have a button that says submit another way to do it would be to use a button
tag
so we could do.
Button and again give it a type of submit.
And now we would just put the text in the middle like that because input is a self closing tag button
is not.
So you would put the text in the middle.
So that will give us the same thing.
All right.
I'm just going to comment these just so you guys know what is what.
So that's a text input.
This is an e-mail input.
This is a message input not a message a text text area input.
See this is a select
this is a no
this is a date.
Radio
and check box and then this is an input submit.
Okay.
So if you ever need to come back here for reference you can do that.
Sexiest.
This button.
Submit.
Okay.
Now one more thing I want to show you is we can at a reset button that actually comment out one of these
because we don't want to submit buttons but if we want to do a reset we can do button with the type
of reset like that.
We'll put the text reset in here.
And now if I fill some stuff in it's a thirty three and then I hit reset.
It'll clear everything out except for John Doe because we hardcoded that value in here like that.
All right.
So that's how we can create forms and I know that this form is extremely ugly.
I'm going to show you how to style forms when we get to the CSF section.
This is just how we can actually display the fields.
All right guys so that's it.
I'll see you in the next video.